# Seed-commectome-based-predictive-modeling

This project aims to realize seed commectome-based predictive modeling, i.e., predicting continuous variables using seed-to-whole-brain resting-state functional connectivity (rsFC) patterns. Ten-fold cross-validation is used to assess the out-of-sample prediction performance. A supervised feature extraction procedure is incorporated within cross-validation by performing general linear models on (only) the training set to detect clusters whose rsFC with the seed regions are significantly associated with the target variable to be predicted. Significant clusters are then used as masks to extract the rsFC values from the seed-to-whole-brain rsFC maps for both the training and the test sets. The extracted rsFC values are employed as features for training the predictive models within the traning set via a sparse Bayesian learning approach of relevance vector machine (RVM). Finally, the resulting RVM weights are applied to the rsFC values of test set to obtain the out-of-sample predicted individual scores. When the dataset includs multiple sites, leave-one-site-out cross-validations are encouraged to assess the generalizability . Supervised feature selection is a long-standing method described in machine learning literature (), and has been proposed to effectively improve predictive performance while discarding irrelevant variables (). Our predictive modeling framework modifies the original CPM approach and incorporates cluster-level inference corrected for multiple comparisons to derive significant clusters whose rsFC to the seed regions are significantly associated with the target variable (Shen et al., 2017). 


As here a supervised feature selection is implemented, a validation sample that is independent of this feature selection procedure is required in order to avoid the potential issue of cicularity as discussed in . 

To SPM, and REST to run the feature selection procedure which can be downloaded at https://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/spm/software/spm12/ and http://www.restfmri.net/forum/REST_V1.8.


Our predictive modeling is based on a relevance vector machine (RVM) (Tipping, 2001) as implemented in the SparseBayes package (http://www.miketipping.com/index.htm). The RVM refers to a specialization of the general Bayesian framework which has an identical functional form to the support vector machine. To implement our predictive modeling with different validation schemes (i.e., 10-fold cross-validation, leave-one-site-out cross-validation, as well as training models within-sample and then validate in independent samples), please add the downloaded SparseBayes package to your Matlab working directory.

CPM has been extensively implemented in studies investigating the predictive capacity of connectivity features for phenotypic data in both healthy and diseased populations. The successful (i.e., significant) predictions within the test sample prove validity of this approach as to effectively improve predictive performance while discarding irrelevant variables (Finn et al., 2015; Beaty et al., 2018; Rosenberg et al., 2016). Our predictive modeling framework modifies the original CPM approach and incorporates cluster-level inference corrected for multiple comparisons to derive clusters whose rsFC to the seed regions were significant associated with FTD. 

Also, supervised feature selection is a long-standing feature selection method described in machine learning literature (Guyon and Elisseeff, 2003; Kohavi and John, 1997). 
Guyon I, Elisseeff A. An introduction to variable and feature selection. Journal of machine learning research, 2003, 3(Mar): 1157-1182. 
R. Kohavi and G. John. Wrappers for feature selection. Artificial Intelligence, 97(1-2):273–324,December 1997. 
Shen X, Finn ES, Scheinost D, et al. Using connectome-based predictive modeling to predict individual behavior from brain connectivity. NatProtoc 2017; 12:506-518.
 
Tipping, M. E. Sparse Bayesian learning and the relevance vector machine. J. Mach. Learn. Res.1, 211-244 (2001). 
Kriegeskorte N, Simmons W K, Bellgowan P S F, et al. Circular analysis in systems neuroscience: the dangers of double dipping[J]. Nature neuroscience, 2009, 12(5): 535.
